##Examples

### Running the examples

Open two terminals. In one terminal, start the server:

```bash
        $ cd myproject/node_modules/rpc-websocket
        $ node doc/examples/1-send-server.js
```
In the other terminal, execute the client:

```bash
        $ cd myproject/node_modules/rpc-websocket
        $ node doc/examples/1-send-client.js
```

### Sending/receiving typed messages

The client:

!INCLUDE "doc/examples/1-send-client.js"

The server:

!INCLUDE "doc/examples/1-send-server.js"

As you can see, you can just resort to a naming convention to create something like a __test__ channel.

### Making RPC calls

You can let the client make RPC calls to the server, but also the other way around. The other way around is not possible with ajax. This endlessly complicates the construction of particular types of applications such as real-time chat boxes. Websockets are a solution for that.

The client:

!INCLUDE "doc/examples/2-rpc-client.js"

The server:

!INCLUDE "doc/examples/2-rpc-server.js"


As you can see, this truly allows for distributed lambdas (=functions). If invoking a local function, looks like this:

```javascript
var y=f(x1,x2);

/* do something with y */

```

In that case, invoking a remote function, looks like that:

```javascript
ws.rpc('f',[x1,x2],function(y) {

        /* do something with y */

});

```
It would, of course, be possible to go the same route as _CORBA_ and generate the underlying code from an IDL. Nobody ever felt the urge to do that for ajax, though. Therefore, I suspect there is simply no demand for this type of IDL compilers and for hiding the code behind such IDL specification file that may not even look simpler in the first place.

### Handling beforeSend/afterSend events

You can use the `beforeSend` event to change something to the message about to be sent. You can `afterSend` event to, for example, do some logging, after successfully sending the message:


!INCLUDE "doc/examples/3-before-after-send-client.js"

### Looping over RPC calls

You could easily run into very subtle bugs when you start looping over rpc calls. Example:

!INCLUDE "test/2-rpc-server.js"

While the program is executing the reply logic, the value of the loop's counter `i` is not what may think it is. The reply logic gets executed asynchronously. Your socket could be waiting for a while before getting a response. In the meanwhile your loop's counter will have moved on.

If you loop over an RPC call, you can generally not count of the fact that the variables that went into the request, are still the same as when you started the RPC call. Therefore, you must make sure to permanently fix their values in an enclosure:

```javascript
while(condition) {

        ws.rpc('f',[x1,x2],function(y) {

                (function(x1,x2) {

                        /* do something with y */

                })(x1,x2);

        });
}
```
When the enclosure function exits, the logic inside of the function will hang on to copies of __x1__, __x2__ inside its closure, with values as they were at the moment that the program executed the function and left the function. The technique to create such enclosure function is generally called [IIFE](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Immediately-invoked_function_expression) (Immediately-invoked function expression).

